Hardware Requirements

Arduino UNO Board.

Arduino UNOArduino UNO
Arduino UNO
#Arduino board is a microcontroller that is used to accept inputs from sensors connected and provide an output action on 
the desired device connected to it. The sensor inputs can be from light-detecting sensors, motion sensors (Ultrasonic or IR), 
temperature sensors, etc. The output from this device can be received through other output devices such as LED, Buzzer, Serial monitor, etc.  

2.   Resistors

 1.5k Ohm Resistor 1.5k Ohm Resistor
 1.5k Ohm Resistor

Resistors are passive devices that restrict the flow of current or divide the voltage through the circuit. The input power 
passes through these resistors and then to the sensors to avoid damage.

3. Jumper Wires

Jumper WiresJumper Wires
Jumper Wires

These are the main components that are used to establish the connections between different devices of the circuit. 


4. LDR (Light-Dependent Resistor)

LDRLDR
LDR
LDR is a #photoresistor that works on the principle of #photoconductivity. The surface of the LDR is made with a layer 
of semiconducting material that is responsible for measuring the light intensity. The principle states that when light 
falls on the surface of the semiconducting material, the electrons receive energy, and movement is caused inside the material. 


When those electrons reach the valence band, electron-hole pairs are formed. This in turn reduces the resistance of the material 
and the corresponding voltage is given as the output of the device.


 5. Bulb

BulbBulb
Bulb

Electric bulbs, otherwise called incandescent bulbs are electrical components that emit light when a certain amount of power is 
given to them. Usually, bulbs are manufactured in a wide range of sizes based on the input power capacity. Ex. 1.5V, 13 Watts, etc.


 6. Power supply


Power supplyPower supply
Power supply
DC Power supply is used for electricals components like the electrical bulb. Alternatively, Power supply modules can be used to 
connect electrical components. In this circuit, we will be using the DC power supply component in the simulation software.


7. NPN Transistor


NPN TransistorNPN Transistor
NPN Transistor
It is a low-power amplifying #transistor. A common NPN  Bipolar Junction transistor (#BJT). This transistor is usually used for 
Switching purposes as we have used in our circuit. When no current flows through the base, a very small amount of current flows 
through the emitter and collector. this means the base current allows the transistor to switch off. This is the switching function of the transistor. 